Castle life was exhausting in its mundanity. No wonder noble classes consumed wine in excessive quantities. Arinen’s parents recently began negotiations to wed her to her friend, a boy who now was the Duke next door. In her youth, she naively longed for this, but now worried that life would settle into interminable inevitability.
A sword sliced above her head, snapping her rudely to the present. Faxanadu chastised her with tongue clicks. Blood pounded in her ears, feelings of shame flooding her conditioned body. She hated that sound.
"Ari! No daydreaming in a fight. You must attune to your environment..."
Arinen slumped, "...for frays have threats all about," she finished. "I guess I have no mood for it."
"Mood?!" he growled, whipping his blade in a wide arc. The speed and violence startled her into action. The impact bounced her shield into her temple, disrupting her balance. She recovered her footing with a wide stance. Practice sword or no, that could have killed her. Satisfaction replaced her shame. Castle life evolved for the moment.
Faxanadu closed the gap with a backhand slice. She met his strike with her own, deflecting his over her head. His shield followed in the wake to crunch against her face. Stumbling back, stars crowded her vision.
Recovering, Arinen let him come. Left side threats she absorbed with her shield; right, she deflected with her sword. Typically, Faxanadu instructed with repetition, allowing her to gain confidence. Now his irritation at her privileged attitude made him relentless. His attacks varied, and she struggled to string her defenses together.
Her anxiety fell away, releasing her into this moment; fully in the fight.  Blows battered her left and right. If she performed below expectation, a healer would be needed. The last time, her father broke Faxanadu's nose in anger. Another, he received a black eye. In private, however, she knew the Baron defended his old friend's methodology.
Average fighters naturally developed attack patterns, but experienced opponents required manipulation. She worked to limit his choices and develop an exploit. By pulling her parry and ducking his sword, his momentum would carry his shield too far to defend a kidney thrust. A fight-ender, if not for training equipment.
Patiently, Faxanadu waited for Arinen to realize the fight had ended. From her back she fumbled to bring her consciousness to the present. This time, rather than his shield following through, he roundhoused her chin with blind precision. His face coalesced, "Get up," he said tenderly. "There is enough lying about in death.” 
He had already changed over. "What have I told you about telegraphing your intentions? Mental plans are revealed in body language. Trust the memories trained into your muscles."
Gingerly, she doffed her gear. "How can I build muscle memory for such maneuvers, if not in training?" Being concussed did nothing to dissipate her cloud of petulance.
He beamed, "You went zero for two with this maneuver. Remind me how to build muscle memory?"
He never missed a trainable moment. "Envision the motions in my mind. Explore possibilities. Incorporate the motions into my kata. Allow the maneuvers into the fight when my body demands them." Arinen mustered her dignity, "I wasn't ready."
"You met my aggression well," he praised. "And it is a good maneuver, if you must kill quickly. Keep developing it." 
Faxanadu believed that conflicts began long before blades cleared sheaths, and one's demeanor can mitigate the need for violence in most cases. She preferred to avoid conflict by avoiding idiots.
He pressed her for details as they walked. "Really, Ari. Where were you in there?"
Arinen chewed her lip. She couldn't meet his gaze, but confessed, "I've been thinking about my future with the new Duke."
He frowned, "He has been a good friend to you for years. Has something soured?"
"No, he is wonderful. It is a smart match. I feel...resistant, as if I am the mortgage he must accept in order to rule."
Reaching her quarters, they faced each other. "We are unbalanced. Rumor indicates he is quite the politician, already accumulating respect at courts. I’ll not be merely a bearer of heirs."
Faxanadu drew her close. "Sweet, wise, Ari. I have had similar concerns. Not for you, in this way, but for the people. It does feel a bit like giving it all away." He pulled away with a sigh. "The world moves and we make our choices. While the ladies do their best with your face, consider what arguments you might bring before your father."
"Don't let Daddy punish you too permanently when you spar."
Faxanadu's laugh reverberated off the stones. "That old swashbuckler will rue having to appease your sorceress mother." Arinen loved the playfulness the three friends shared. She hoped one day to find friendships as solid and loyal as theirs.
