## Arinen Comes of Age

Life in the castle never changed. The expecations and routines bled one day to the next, and today was no different. It was no small wonder the nobility consumed so many barrels of mead every year. There was, however, changes on the horizon. It was Arinen's birthday, one with a significant milestone. Having survived the requisite number of seasons in her lifetime, the proverbial "powers-that-be", who inexplicably felt entitled to her destiny, decided she was a woman now. Politically, anyway. Her parents were starting discussions to have her wed to the boy who recently became Duke over the fiefdom that bordered their lands to the east. The old Duke had passed early last winter from breathing complications. Since then, his son had been growing into the role. His mother, the Duchess, still ruled officially, but had recently been stepping back to allow the new Duke to grow.

A sword sliced through the wisps of hair that had escaped from her braid, snapping her rudely from her reverie. Sir Faxanadu chastised her with a series of clicks from his tongue. She hated that sound. Even when it wasn't directed at her, when anyone made that sound, her body responded in the way it was conditioned. Her cheeks flushed hot and the blood pounded in her ears. Her body betrayed her in the same way now, flooding her with shame at her failure.

"Ari, where are you? That would have permanently separated your neck from your shoulders. There is no room for daydreaming in a fight. You must attune all your senses to the environment..."

She shook her head, chagrined. "...frays have threats everywhere," she finished his maxim. "I know. Sorry. I guess I've not the mood for it today." She gently patted her hair, ensuring that it remained mostly presentable, and more importantly, simply present.

Faxanadu whirled into action. "Mood?" he growled like a roaring tiger, arcing his sword in a downward angle towards her clavicle. The speed and violence in the motion startled her into action, defending the blow just in time. She barely got her shield in between her and his blade before the strike. The force of impact caused the shield bounced off her shoulder and temple, knocking her off balance. Quickly, she recovered her footing and got her head in the game. Practice sword or no, that would have killed her.

He pressed the attack, closing the gap between them with a backhand horizontal slice. She met his strike with one of her own, deflecting his momentum over her head. He allowed his sword be carried as she directed, bringing his shield around and crunching it against her face. She stumbled back, jarred, desperately trying not to notice the stars crowding her vision. His reach combined with the length of his sword were a clear advantage, but she had trained to mitigate those. In fact, she'd yet to spar with anyone without such an advantage over her.

She let him come, blow after blow, he was relentless. When the blows came from her left, she absorbed it with her shield. If it came from the right, she deflected it with her short sword. Usually, Faxanadu taught her with repetition. He would attack with the same patterns over and over, allowing her to learn the rhythm and gain confidence in her defenses. Now, though, he varied his attacks. She rushed to string her defenses together in some way that would allow to her break an opening in his repertoire.

Arinen let her anxiety for her destiny fall away, existing in the moment. In the fight. Blow after blow rained down on her. Faxanadu was angry. His irritation at her privileged attitude had him trying to knock the sense into her. It was working. His blows were brutal. If she performed an iota below her ability, she was going to need a cleric. The last time that happened, her father had broken Ser Faxanadu's nose. Behind cosed doors, however, the Baron adamantly defended his old friends methods to her mother. The time before that, Faxanadu's eye had been blackened, but an ultimately similar outcome. She recognized this would be another one of those moments if she didn't step up her game.

She began working her defense so that the next incoming strike would be one she had decided on, not Faxanadu. There always were attack patterns, but sometimes, you needed to help your opponent establish them. She felt a twinge of guilt that she was about to maneuver him in such a way that left his dead arm holding his shield unable to defend against her thrust after she ducked his blow instead of blocking it. 

"Mood is for feasting and fucking...", he began.

"...not for fighting." Arinen adjusted her posture, standing now with dignity instead of exhaustion. Faxanadu never let her drop the royal facade for long. He claimed that conflicts began long before blades cleared sheathes, and ones demeanor can mitigate the need for violence in most cases. She preferred to avoid conflict by avoiding assholes. Clearly, Faxanadu loved doling out lessons.
